content/about/_index.md, before:

+++
title = "About"
description = "Hugo, the world's fastest framework for building websites"
date = "2019-02-28"
aliases = ["about-us", "about-hugo", "contact"]
author = "Hugo Authors"
+++

Written in Go, Hugo is an open source static site generator available under the [Apache Licence 2.0.](https://github.com/gohugoio/hugo/blob/master/LICENSE) Hugo supports TOML, YAML and JSON data file types, Markdown and HTML content files and uses shortcodes to add rich content. Other notable features are taxonomies, multilingual mode, image processing, custom output formats, HTML/CSS/JS minification and support for Sass SCSS workflows.

Hugo makes use of a variety of open source projects including:

* https://github.com/yuin/goldmark
* https://github.com/alecthomas/chroma
* https://github.com/muesli/smartcrop
* https://github.com/spf13/cobra
* https://github.com/spf13/viper

Hugo is ideal for blogs, corporate websites, creative portfolios, online magazines, single page applications or even a website with thousands of pages.

Hugo is for people who want to hand code their own website without worrying about setting up complicated runtimes, dependencies and databases.

Websites built with Hugo are extremely fast, secure and can be deployed anywhere including, AWS, GitHub Pages, Heroku, Netlify and any other hosting provider.

Learn more and contribute on [GitHub](https://github.com/gohugoio).

Commit message:

Adds about content from old website

content/about/_index.md, after:

+++
title = "About"
description = "Hugo, the world's fastest framework for building websites"
date = "2019-02-28"
aliases = ["contact"]
author = "Hugo Authors"
toc = true
+++


## What do I do?

I [research](https://mattlilley.com/research), [educate](https://mattlilley.com/education) and [code](https://mattlilley.com/code).

## What are my passions?

Physics has always been a big part of my life, whether it’s thinking about basic mechanics problems or trying to tackle the more global challenge of fusion energy.  Whatever the subject, I have always enjoyed exploring new ideas and found great pleasure in explaining things to people.

## What is my story?

In 2014, after spending 9 years working in academic institutions in the UK and overseas, I could see that the research and education landscape was beginning to shift.  The rise of open access publishing, crowd funding, citizen science projects and massive open online courses was pointing the way to a new model of research and education that is not restricted to the few, but open to all.   With the help of technology, anyone could make a difference – you just needed a computer, an internet connection and an inquisitive and open mind.

I wanted to be part of that movement and so, in the years since, I've been on a journey to figure out how to make open science and education financially sustainable for me. I'm not quite there yet, but the journey so far has been pretty fun and interesting. It's involved: building webapps, tutoring, data science, teaching business leaders about technology, building cold fusion experiments, collaborating with researchers at MIT and YouTube. As you can see, I genuinely do like exploring new things.

I'm always on the look out for new collaborations, so if you think I might be able to help with something you're currently building/developing then please feel free to [get in contact](https://mattlilley.com/contact).

## Contact

Whether your needs are educational, research focussed, or if you are just interested in a bit of casual physics, please feel free to get in touch.

email: [info@mattlilley.com](mailto:info@mattlilley.com)

Twitter: [@CasualPhysics](https://twitter.com/CasualPhysics) & [@mklilley](https://twitter.com/mklilley)

Instagram: [casualphysics](https://instagram.com/casualphysics) & [mattlilleycom](https://instagram.com/mattlilleycom)

YouTube: [CasualPhysics](https://www.youtube.com/CasualPhysics)

GitHub: [mklilley](https://github.com/mklilley/)

LinkedIn: [Matthew Lilley](https://www.linkedin.com/in/matthew-lilley/)
