content/posts/pickle-power.md, before:

+++
author = "Matt Lilley"
title = "Pickle power"
date = "2022-02-13"
description = "In this series, I'll show you how not to stress about big, impossible sounding problems, like \"how many people are picking their nose right now?\". The secret is in approximations, not exact answers. You'll be amazed at what you can understand when precision takes a back seat."
subtitle="Unblocking guesstimation gridlock with the geometric mean"
tags = [
    "education",
    "science"
]
series = ["Guesstimation"]
+++

{{< youtube fNA3QIV-Db4 >}}


Picture this – you're in a bustling city, London, to be precise, with a pickle in hand 🥒. Now imagine every pickle consumed in London over the span of a year, lined up end to end. Just how far would that string of pickles stretch? It might seem a whimsical, even absurd question, but humor me for a moment, because finding the answer is a journey that challenges our perceptions of scale, and stretches our mathematical muscles.

Hello there 👋 and welcome the fourth post in the [series on guesstimation](/series/guesstimation) where we tackle seemingly impossible problems using the power of approximation, logic, and a sprinkling of creativity.

Just like [last time](/posts/staggering-scales), we've got a new tool to play with - the geometric mean - and it's going to help you grapple with that universal "I have no idea" reflex. You know the one – that moment when you're faced with a problem so immense or bizarre that you want to throw your hands up and surrender to the impossible 😫. No longer. The geometric mean will change how you view problems, tackling them from new angles, and seeing potential solutions where before you only saw dead-ends.

And here's the big secret: it's not all about pickles 😉. This exploration forms the foundation for some truly profound inquiries. Today, it's about food – specifically pickles. But next time, we'll be exploring if we could grow our own food, touching on sustainability and self-sufficiency, topics increasingly vital in our ever-changing world.

Ready for the adventure? We’re off on a whimsical guesstimation journey that just might change the way you look at pickles – and numbers – forever!

Commit message:

Updates to pickle power post

content/posts/pickle-power.md, after:

+++
author = "Matt Lilley"
title = "Pickle power"
date = "2022-02-13"
description = "Picture this – you're in a bustling city, London, to be precise, with a pickle in hand 🥒. Now imagine every pickle consumed in London over the span of a year, lined up end to end. Just how far would that string of pickles stretch?"
subtitle="Unblocking guesstimation gridlock with the geometric mean"
tags = [
    "education",
    "science"
]
series = ["Guesstimation"]
+++

{{< youtube fNA3QIV-Db4 >}}


Picture this – you're in a bustling city, London, to be precise, with a pickle in hand 🥒. Now imagine every pickle consumed in London over the span of a year, lined up end to end. Just how far would that string of pickles stretch? It might seem a whimsical, even absurd question, but humor me for a moment, because finding the answer is a journey that challenges our perceptions of scale, and stretches our mathematical muscles.

Hello there 👋 and welcome the fourth post in the [series on guesstimation](/series/guesstimation) where we tackle seemingly impossible problems using the power of approximation, logic, and a sprinkling of creativity.

Just like [last time](/posts/staggering-scales), we've got a new tool to play with - the geometric mean - and it's going to help you grapple with that universal "I have no idea" reflex. You know the one – that moment when you're faced with a problem so immense or bizarre that you want to throw your hands up and surrender to the impossible 😫. No longer. The geometric mean will change how you view problems, tackling them from new angles, and seeing potential solutions where before you only saw dead-ends.

And here's the big secret: it's not all about pickles 😉. This exploration forms the foundation for some truly profound inquiries. Today, it's about food – specifically pickles. But next time, we'll be exploring if we could grow our own food, touching on sustainability and self-sufficiency, topics increasingly vital in our ever-changing world.

Ready for the adventure? We’re off on a whimsical guesstimation journey that just might change the way you look at pickles – and numbers – forever!
